So what is the problem with these?
Because these two metrics used to be
the only way we measured performance.
It was the only ways we
could measure performance,
is we would track how long till DOM
content loaded, and how long to load?
And we would track those over time and
that was the only way to really know,
how fast our site was loading,
the load word didn't have a problem yet.
Because load originally meant
that the document was ready.
In fact, that was so common that early
JavaScript frameworks like jQuery,
which is still awesome, jQuery,
lots of our code that we would write back
in the day would say something like this,
document ready, and
then we would do stuff to it.
And it was just so common like, this is
what meant is we would download a page,
the page would be done, it would be ready.
And then,
we could start asynchronous tasks,
we could start things that
needed to happen after the fact.
In this case, we would do some ajax,
which was the old way we would do fetch.
We would fetch the shopping cart, and
put some data about how many things
were in the user shopping cart.
And this was great, and
everything was good.
But then, 2010 happened, and
in 2010, this new fancy idea called
client-side rendering happened,
which is all you crazy kids know today.
Back in the day, we used a bunch of
frameworks that you don't even know about
anymore, like backbone, and knockout,
and jQuery UI, which were
the early ways that we did this.
And suddenly,
applications changed their structure,
and a website could now look like this.
This might look familiar from more
modern JavaScript frameworks,
cuz a lot of them still do this.
We have an HTML,
that HTML is largely empty,
it's got a single div
that has an ID like app.
And then, I'm still using old
jQuery syntax here just for
connection to the other stuff.
When the document is ready, which happens
almost instantly because the document
isn't doing anything, we start up our
application, and we do things to it.
This is how client-side rendered React or
Vue, or
any of those things would do things,
where the load event happens almost right
away, and then we do all of the work.
So, how does that apply if the old
GeoCities sites switched to client-side
rendering?
Well, before, here's where our document
content loaded and load event were, and
it was great, and
they were meaningful events that told
us about the performance of the site.
But if we rendered geocities.com using
a client-side rendering kind of pattern,
suddenly those things move up here.
DOM content loaded and
load happened instantly,
and there's no meaningful
connection to the user experience.
The user experience could be crap slow,
the end of this page could be one second,
10 seconds, 30 seconds, a minute, but
the metrics didn't mean anything.
And so,
we needed new ways to measure performance.
Specifically, Google needed new
ways to measure performance,
because Google makes money off search.
Google wants to deliver the best search
results possible so that more people use
Google to search and Google can show you
more ads, fundamentally how Google works.
So, Google has realized that users
think a search result is better
if the website is fast, they will stay on
that page longer if the website is fast.
If they can make more websites faster,
they can reward the fast sites,
people will see the search
results are better.
But how do they do that?
How could they know that?
They need a way of comparing
a site objectively.
If we look at foo.com and bar.com,
how do they know which one is faster?
If they're equally good for content and
backlinks and all the other things,
how do they know which one to
rank better than the other one?
If they were to look at DOM
content loaded and load,
it would be largely due to how
they were built, a client-side
rendered site would look super fast, even
if it feels super slow, and vice versa.
So, Google needed new ways to
measure performance objectively,
based on the user perception of
the performance of the site, and
it works regardless of the frameworks or
technologies used to build the site.
And that's where
the Core Web Vitals come in,
which is a new set of measurements that
was introduced to try and address these.
Now, these are still
changing along the way, but
I'm gonna give you an idea of what
they look like right now in 2024.